[[Anthony Albertina]]: I will talk about this from a website point of
view.  Static documentation means that the user can only read, but
never manipulate the documentation to the point where it is different
than when originally loaded. Dynamic documentation means the opposite;
manipulatable and interactive. Not to the point where the user can
change the content, but where they can reveal hidden parts, and/or
where the data is dependent on some attribute of the user. Examples of
this include lists of words prefixed with a '+' logo. If the user
clicks on the '+' logo, it will change to a '-' logo, and reveal more
specific details about the area. Conversely, when the '-' logo is
clicked, it will re-hide it. An example that is completely unrelated,
but shows what I'm communicating is here:
www.bootsnipp.com/snippets/DVb0A.

This concept doesn't just include '+', and '-', buttons/logos, but
anything that hides and shows additional content, like at Mr.
Schnieder's github page linked here:
www.stevesunypoly.github.io/classes/com400fall2016/com400-spring2016syllabus.html. Production
modes which are the ways the documentation is accessed, i.e. text,
audio, video, screen shots, are either static or dynamic. What
determines that is the technique used to make the
documentation. Assuming the documentation is on a web page, Is it made
using JavaScript to be interactive and dynamic? Or is it just a .pdf
file posted on a web page? Unless it is directed to the user based on
some attribute of theirs, this would be considered static.

[[Ezra Neal]]: According to my research, documentation techniques are
ideas that one uses to create proper documentation for a particular
subject.  There are two different methods that are used, dynamic and
static.  Static documentation is always visible in the same form and
format, and does not change depending on context, user, or any other
situations. An example would be, documentation printed on paper at a
point in time distinct from the need or request for such
documentation.  Dynamic documentation is presented to the user in a
way that is, at least in part, customised or personalised to some
aspect of the context. The context can be defined by attributes of the
user or the specific situation.  Dynamic documentation may be prepared
as print, video or audio materials, and delivered in part based on the
context.

[[Eric Kucskar]]: Against my better judgment, I'm going to let this
thread live and just add my interpretations of what is required
below. I’ll also be referencing other people’s threads in this
thread. The reason I did not reply to those threads is because I
thought it would be better to have a consolidated reply thread to the
people I reference rather than replying to each individually.

 
I’m going to start by adding onto Vieltiza Rodriguez’s thread,
specifically technique. I believe that technique is very much about
the execution of the task. For example, there are multiple different
ways or techniques that people could use to enjoy pizza. Some examples
would be just picking it up and eating it, folding it, or using a fork
and knife (but seriously why?). While Vieltiza kinda says this, I just
felt it important to highlight the fact that it is very much about the
execution. I also feel it important to add that Erin Vandresar pretty
much states the same thing that I did, but before me, props to them!
I'm now moving onto the relation of a production mode’s documentation
has towards static and dynamic in this thread. I feel that Michael
Leighton started a very good relationship comparison, so I’m going to
building/responding to his comparison. I agree with the way that he
presented the dynamic nature of video and audio, but feel it brought
up an interesting question, is any production solely dynamic or
static? Taking his example I applied it to text. While it’s true that
text isn't changing, it can be presented on paper either handwritten
or typed, or found on the Internet. This also extends to the fact that
when reading an article, you can choose to only read part of it, or in
other words get rid of/skip over what you don’t want to read. This
would indeed be dynamic presentation.

[[Spencer Backus]]: Technique is just the way that someone goes about
doing something, in this case documentation. You can choose either a
static method of documentation or a dynamic method. Every person
wouldn’t use the same user input options in dynamic documentation.

The different production modes that pertain to this discussion are in
the forms of text, graphics, audio and video. The documentation that
comes from this can be either static or dynamic.  Static documentation
is something that will not change, it does not depend on who is using
it or when. It can be updated, but the updates won’t be automatic like
dynamic would be.

Dynamic documentation is clearly the opposite whereas it will change
depending on different variables such as when someone uses it. It is
updated or changed based new information. It is also defined as
dynamic if it presents input options to the user such as radio
buttons, drop down buttons, sliders, etc.

 
[[Vielitza Rodriguez]]: After doing some research, I have concluded
that Technique can be defined as describing how you will be doing what
you are doing. If you are performing a written document then how will
you produce it, if you are doing an audio documentation then how will
you be recording it., etc.  A Production mode is just what form the
documentation is presented as, whether it is written, audio, and
video, etc., From my understanding, Static and Dynamic documentation
has to do with the viewer and the time. A Static documentation does
not change when viewed today or tomorrow, by Bob or Will. Whereas a
Dynamic documentation can change when viewed at a different time and
by a different person. Dynamic documentation is more towards those who
use user profiles, or member only pages where Static is for everyone
and anyone.

[[Lucia Loperﬁdo]]: I really like how you broke down static and
dynamic documentation. Because like you said, someone who is
inexperienced with static and dynamic documentation will have a hard
time comparing them, and I am a perfect example of that. From the
deﬁnitions given for the discussion I started to understand the
diﬀerence between the two but hearing about your experiences with them
and putting them in real life situations helped me a lot.

[[Kyle Saunders]]: Documentation techniques are ways you go about
creating documentation. The true definition of technique is “a way of
carrying out a particular task, especially the execution or
performance of an artistic work or a scientific procedure”. Technique
from a documentation perspective is the tools and strategies used to
create the documentation. A production mode identifies how you produce
the documentation, the key word in that is production. Production of
anything takes more thought than one might think. When producing
documentation you need to think ahead and plan from the beginning to
the end of the documentation to find the most effective way to product
the documentation.

Anyone comparing static and dynamic documentation that is
inexperienced is going to have a hard time. I feel that to fully
understand the difference between the two you have to use both, static
and dynamic documentation. During my job over the summer I got the
opportunity to be able to work with both types of documentation and i
am grateful of it. Static documentation was the more popular form of
documentation that was used. Static tends to be more popular because
this form is less personal and more broad to the general topic, also
static allows the documentation to more abiding.  Dynamic
documentation tends to be more of a short term and simpler way to
document things. At my job dynamic tended to only be used when someone
was going to be out of the office while a job needed to be done. What
the coworker would do is he/she would use their preferred production
mode and create a customized form of documentation for a one time use,
thus allowing me to work on the ticket while they were out of the
office.

[[Michael Leighton]]: For this discussion, I am to talk about the
different modes of production, examples given in the wiki were text,
graphics, audio and video; Also, within the different modes, the
documentation is either static or dynamic, static documentation being
unchangeable and straight forward and dynamic being a custom form of
documentation.

Explained in TechTarget’s site about the differences between dynamic
and static modes, it states an example about web links / HTML code
output; It states that on a static website, the user may click on
available and FIXED links on the site that are given, but, on a
dynamic website, the user can make requests for data contained in a
database on the server that will be created and shown visually at that
moment according to what was requested. [1]

Video and audio wise is more or less static, it is going to be given
to you as presented. The most control that you will have over video is
being able to pause and start it from a certain point and audio is the
same, but you can control the volume in certain applications. The only
way for this to be dynamic I feel is if you are the one who is
actually editing the clips and images (and sound / music / etc.) that
is going into it using an application.

[1] TechTarget, Paragraph 2 -http://searchnetworking.techtarget.com/definition/dynamic-and-static


[[Erin Vandresar]]: A technique to many is a means of finishing
something. In the case of creating documentation, it is more than just
a "way" to complete or finish something. It is and can be described by
the tools and strategies that are used as different strategies and
tools used could come across as a new or different technique. When I
think of production mode, I automatically think of how it is made, how
it is "produced". Even though documentation is technically a product
(it can be a piece of paper or a file which is something that can be
produced), I still imagine the mediums that can be used (text,
graphics, audio, video).  Dynamic is a process that is constantly
characterized by constant change therefore dynamic documentation is in
some ways, changed or altered. On the other hand, Static documentation
makes me think that you do not want to touch it- the same as something
that is electronically charged, something that can produce static
electricity.  In many ways, you stay clear of something that can shock
you and I would assume the same applies with documentation- you do not
change or alter it.

[[Donald Will]]: While I agree that most documentation is static
currently, I would argue that there are tools for creating dynamic
documentation today. However these forms of documentation are usually
regarded as less reliable due to the fact that they change often. For
example, an open Google Document or Wikipedia page might have plenty
of information on a certain subject but the intellectual side of
society and educational institutions would have us not trust these
pages for our actual research or work as they cannot be accredited and
could be changed within the day. So I don't necessarily think that
dynamic documentation is a concept, but i do think that what dynamic
documentation does exist is usually regarded as less trustworthy and
therefore less accurate than what could be printed as static
documentation.

[[Steven Savold]]: Another counter to this would be an example of the
steam store. For anyone familiar with it the Steam store is a
collection of games that can be bought downloaded and played. Further,
anyone with a Steam account gets their homepage tailored to the games
they enjoy. So instead of the default homepage for any anonymous
user. A steam account homepage when presented must construct the
homepage in real time on request with games the users might enjoy. The
server which is doing this is also looking a database and calculating
prices for the games based off sales that might bee going on. All of
this in real time per request of a logged in users homepage, making it
very much a dynamically documented page.

[[Eric Dunn]]: As somewhat of a counter, how about certain game
tutorials, where they tell you how to do something in the game, then
you do it until you can nail it five times in a row (for
example). That could be considered dynamic because the game makes you
practice more in the area of the game you are already weakest,
somewhat changing the experience from user to user on the fly.  A lot
of program help menus could be considered dynamic as well, since
(usually) the user enters search terms, and one or more pages pop
up. They don't end up seeing all of the documentation and choosing
which part to look at, so it is therefore dynamic.  The issue is that
(of course) the user can just read through the whole thing if they
want, making it static.  Taking both sides into account, something
like a program's help menu can be either dynamic or static, depending
on how it is used.

[[Carl Bennett]]: Techniques really describe the processes used in
making documentation. For example if your documentation is text based
using some sort of text editor to create it would be a technique used
in creating the documentation. If your documentation had video you
would use some sort of video editor. The techniques you use may vary
depending on whether you want your documentation to be static of
dynamic because the techniques you choose to use will determine what
your production modes are.

With regards to static and dynamic documentation it would seem that
most documentation is static. Obviously changes can be made to any
documentation to account for updates or changes to software or
whatever the documentation is for but none of this is done in real
time. So it would seem that the closest we get to dynamic
documentation is going from one static document to a new updated
static document, but the end result is always static. Unless someone
is constantly updating and changing a document, until it is updated
that document would be static. Dynamic documentation really seems like
more of a concept than anything that actually currently exists since
there is no system that can make documentation tailored to each
individual user and scenario to best fit what they might need. Now you
could create multiple forms of documentation to account for various
users and scenarios but each group of documents would be static
themselves. For example say you create documentation for group A and
documentation for group B. Overall it could be considered dynamic
since the documentation changes from group A to group B
changes. However within just group A or just group B there would be no
change and thus the documentation within the separate groups would be
static.

[[Christian Rothrock]]: The division between techniques and production
modes have a much more richly defined boundary between them.  The
technique defines how you create a document.  It lays out which tools
you will need for creating the document and gives a structure to how
the content will be introduced.  Conversely, production modes are more
of the technical side of the document.  Basically, the production mode
defines WHAT you create, not necessarily HOW you create it.

Static and dynamic documentation differences are less clear, more
ambiguous in their separation.  To expand on this observation, a
dynamic document can look and feel exactly like a static document if
the dynamic document is written using a standard template and the
content is customized to the specific details of what is needed.  In
today's world of multimedia, static documents can also be in the form
of audio or video presentation as an instructional video much the same
way a printed static document is.

In my opinion, it is easier to understand and conceptualize the
contrasts between techniques and production modes that it is between
static and dynamic documentation.

[[Richard Arcuri]]: I agree with the points made here.  Putting them
in your terms helps explain the modes of production better. Today
there is so much documentation over media and so much advancing with
things that almost everything is dynamic. Everything is changing all
the time.

[[Derek Baker]]: I would agree with almost everything stated here.
Production modes are easy to identify, and relatively limited. If we
are forced to make a binary categorization in regards to whether we
consider a piece of documentation to be static or dynamic, this is
also accomplished with ease if one does not think too much about what
it actually means to be static or dynamic.  In my own case, I have a
hard time separating techniques from mediums.

"* A technique is a way
of carrying out the task of creating documentation – described by the
tools and strategies used in making the documentation * A production
mode identifies the medium in which documentation is produced – text,
graphics, audio, video (?)"

In my mind there is much overlap between tools and medium. If I am
making a website, the purpose of which is to provide documentation for
a process, I am going to be producing, directly or indirectly, HTML
and quite probably some CSS.  I personally am going to write some HTML
or JADE(which is compiled into HTML).  The website, at its core, is
HTML. Is HTML a tool or a medium?  Is HTML a production mode or a
technique?  I suppose that since the HTML will be rendered as text
(unless I'm using <audio> or <video> tags) the production mode is
text.

So maybe this is how I should be thinking about techniques.  The
techniques are the inputs and the production modes are the outputs.  I
suppose that my diffuculty arises from the word 'medium.'  If I paint
in acrylic and on a canvas, my medium is acrylic and canvas. That
seems obvious. If I'm just painting letters to document some process,
I suppose I could quantify the 'production mode' as text. If I painted
an image or several to document that process, my production mode would
then be graphic.

As far as techniques I could be using cross-hatching or glazing or
pointilism or splatter or others. I mentioned those particular
techniques because they can achieve desired effects within the
limitations of the medium that is acrylic painting. So, in this
example the techniques are a function of the limitations of the
medium.  In a similar vein, text-based documentation should be
verbose, highly illustrative and unambiguous because of the
limitations of text: with text we are using abstract symbols (letters)
to represent a process that requires actions of some type to be
manifested in the real world.

What techniques in can be used in the medium of writing that
facilitate effective documentation production in the mode of text?
Adherence to contemporary and widely accepted definitions of words,
grammar, and spelling are obvious. For instance, using Irish-English
slang with British-English spellings in a document that will be
consumed by American-English speakers will probably result in
unnecessary cognitive demands being placed on the users.

[[Lester Mazyck-Carroll]]: The production modes introduced so far come
in various forms such as text, graphics, audio and video. Within these
production modes, documentation can be presented in two types static
and dynamic. As previously stated, documentation that is printed, such
as a user’s manual, would be considered static. What you see, is what
you get. No changes can be made. As we move into digital mediums the
options of creating both static and dynamic documentation becomes
available.

Using software such as Word, can allow you to create static documents
such as PDF files or dynamic documents, well at least somewhat, by the
addition of dynamic fields where you can input the information you
like or variable data printing where data can be change using
information from a database.

In audio and video files, being static, I’m assuming, would just be
playing the file. A dynamic audio and video file would allow the user
to interact with the file through various means. Using software such
as Adobe Flash allows for the capture of mouse and keyboard input as
well as other forms of input to aid in the interactivity.

[[Derek Baker]]: I have been tasked with illustrating how existing
examples of documentation can fit within the confines of a static of
dynamic family based on the definitions provided. However, I would
argue that documentation that can be considered truly dynamic is
almost non-existent.

In order for documentation to be truly dynamic, outputs would have to
be generated on-the-fly in response to user interactions, meaning it
would almost certainly require real-time evaluation of data derived
from available percepts in addition to respond to novel situations.

Something like this would fall into a category of Artificial
Intelligence or Machine Learning. However, even if we are dealing with
rudimentary forms of AI or ML, we will still be interacting with
systems that are not meaningfully dynamic.

Let's assume that we use the Slack application at work. Let's also
assume that we have configured Slackbot to serve as an FAQ-responder
(this really happens).  While I can ask Slackbot any number of
different questions, it will have a predefined set of responses, and
the documented information it provides is static.

The presentation is "customized or personalized to some aspect of the
context,"but all we really accomplished was putting a different
interface on a static web page.  In the similar vein, we could refer
to a book's table of contents or index to find "pointers" that guide
us to relevant "answers" to our "queries."In my mind the two scenarios
are somewhat analgous. If the book were capable of capturing my inputs
and turning its own pages, the equivalence would be basically
complete.

As I consider this further, based on the definition provided, I'm
interpreting that the User Interface will be the defining factor in
regards to whether I should classify a piece of documentation as
static or dynamic.

If a non-trivial portion of the presentation of documentative data is
automated, or the data presented is tailored to the user, it may be
safe to assume that, according to the definition provided, the
document is itself dynamic. Else the document is static.
