Production mode has a variety of meanings 

''Presentation''

* A Production mode is just what form the documentation is presented as,
whether it is written, audio, and video, etc.,

''Access''

* Production modes which are the ways the documentation is accessed,
i.e. text, audio, video, screen shots, are either static or
dynamic.

''Technique''

* When I think of production mode, I automatically think of how it is
made, how it is "produced". Even though documentation is technically a
product (it can be a piece of paper or a file which is something that
can be produced), I still imagine the mediums that can be used (text,
graphics, audio, video).

* In my mind there is much overlap between tools and medium. If I am
making a website, the purpose of which is to provide documentation for
a process, I am going to be producing, directly or indirectly, HTML
and quite probably some CSS.  I personally am going to write some HTML
or JADE(which is compiled into HTML).  The website, at its core, is
HTML. Is HTML a tool or a medium?  Is HTML a production mode or a
technique?  I suppose that since the HTML will be rendered as text
(unless I'm using <audio> or <video> tags) the production mode is
text. In my own case, I have a hard time separating techniques from
mediums.



''Process''

* A production mode identifies how you produce the documentation, the
key word in that is production. Production of anything takes more
thought than one might think. When producing documentation you need to
think ahead and plan from the beginning to the end of the
documentation to find the most effective way to product the
documentation.

''Output''

* Production modes are more of the technical side of the document.
Basically, the production mode defines WHAT you create, not
necessarily HOW you create it.

* Technique as input, production mode output
So maybe this is how I should be thinking about techniques.  The
techniques are the inputs and the production modes are the outputs.



